So all we've talked about so
far is everything on the UL,
this all has to do with
parents at this point in time.
And so
now let's take a look at the children.
There actually aren't
that many properties for
the children for the LIs, but
the main one happens to be this.
So down here in the LIs,
we have the ability of changing our order.
And so if I simply say for
my LI order of one that is gonna do
absolutely nothing for
me at this point, that is just setting
all six of those boxes to have
a value of one for the order.
But then if I were to take my class,
remember up here in our HTML we had
a couple of classes of flex2 on the LIs.
So if I were to reset this to flex2,
and I said order of 2,
that will pull out those two
boxes in this particular case,
the properties the way we have them set
up box number 2 and box number 5, and
it's actually pulling them out and
putting them second here in the order.
So they're gonna wind up
showing up later in our layout.
So the things with the order
of 1 show up first 1, 3, 4, 6,
and then the two elements that have
the order have 2 show up later.
Obviously you could add
many more classes and
you could then put your boxes in whatever
order you want them to display them in.
You can also set so called widths and
I use the air quotes because
the CSS property width should
never be used inside of flexbox.
The property you wanna use
is one called flex basis,
flex basis has to do with how
wide is this box sort of?
So we say it's gonna be
whatever 30% let's say,
man might actually wanna
being 25% sometimes or
20% sometimes maybe it's more like 50%.
It just sort of depends on what's
going on in your flexbox layout.
When you use the CSS property of width and
you say the width is 30% it
will never be 29.9 It will never
be 30.1% it will always be 30%.
So when you work with
flexbox you wanna work
with flex basis as the width
property here, and
so you can write that out longhand.
So let's just say flex2 here for example,
we could say our flex basis is,
I don't know 25% and
then our min width here,
we should probably have that go away.
So the two items now
there they are item 2 and
5, they both have about half of the width
overall about 25% for those two.
And then the other boxes where we
haven't defined the flex basis,
they're as wide as their content.
That's what's going on here.
So if I set up here just
on the LI in general and
I said the flex basis here
was something like 10%.
Then we have as you see here
a narrower set of boxes 1, 3, 4 and 6.
And 2 and 5 happened to be wider and
that only adds up to 90%.
So we don't have quite the full 100% for
the row.
There's some other properties that are
here that are part of this that are called
flex grow and flex shrink, they have to
do with how fast the box gets wider or
how fast the box gets smaller
relative to the other boxes.
What I find is that most people are not
using these particular properties in
layouts necessarily, and
that is because they can be a little bit
unpredictable in terms of the layouts and
expanding things on the screen.
So I'm gonna kind of skip over those
in terms of a longer explanation,
but you can write those out if you want.
You can say flex grow and
it's just a number for a value, so
these are going to grow two times faster
than the other boxes are for example, yes.
>> What's the difference
between flex basis 30%?
>> Yeah.
And width 30%.
>> For the list items, yeah.
So if I said width here,
so width of 30% Okay,
they are going to be a width
of 30% no matter what.
So I will start to push
them off the screen,
at some point in time here or
not they're just
gonna be 30% say how
they never flex at all.
I'm making my screen bigger, I'm making my
screen smaller and
they never flex at all, okay?
As opposed to using
a flex basis of 30% and
here now these will flex.
If I have it set up to do that.
So if we get rid of these things here.
Okay, yeah, that's it.
So now, see how those boxes
got a little bit bigger,
see how to get a little bit smaller.
See how we can still squash them down.
Look at that.
So here 1 and 3 are clearly a little
bit smaller than number 4 is.
4 is got some text that's actually
going into overflow here.
Number 2 is the same kind of issue.
So that is what flex basis is doing.
And if we set this back to width again,
So they are what they are.
See how they all change exactly
the same size no matter what,
they're all 30% of their container width
and so as opposed to like one in three
getting a little smaller to accommodate
number four which has some text in it.
So they are what they
are when you use width.
They're not as flexible as flex spaces.
Somebody else had another question about
the difference between something like
stretch in flex box versus max height or
min height or something like that.
So back in the old days when we did
our layouts with floats, by default,
the height of your elements are as
tall as your content, okay?
So content however tall the content
is in the particular box,
that's how tall that box is.
Your height measurement,
the CSS property height,
can artificially make that taller, okay?
And of course you can use max height or
min height to control a little
bit about that height.
But recall that that is for
that one particular box.
And so what the flex box will do is it
will within that particular row that
particular set of boxes that we're looking
at when you use the stretch property,
it will stretch to make those boxes as
tall as the longest piece of content.
And so then equalize all of the boxes
in the row to that same height, this is
something we used to have to do with
JavaScript when we did it with floats or
layouts with floats, and we wanted to
have equal height boxes so now that's
just baked into Flexbox And makes all
of your boxes equal height from there.
So what I would recommend is if you
do need equal height boxes something
like flex box or grid,
as you'll see tomorrow will be
a much better approach than
playing around with max heights.
Because again when you are playing
around with max height, min height,
you may wind up with some
overflow eventually anyway.
And then flex box or grid they
are set to deal with that for you.
>> Can you talk about the thought process
between using flex direction row versus
column?
>> What do we wanna use between rows and
columns?
So generally speaking if you wanna be
laying out a web page you're gonna use
rows, and we're gonna go through that here
that's my next thing to talk about is
using flexbox in a grid system.
So you're gonna most likely
like 90% of the time when
you're working with flex box you
probably gonna have something with rows.
On occasion, and we do have an example
of this later on in the course,
flex box can be useful for columns.
Maybe you actually do want to
stack a whole bunch of things
on top of each other,
especially if you're looking at some UI,
particularly if you're
looking at say a card.
And maybe you want some elements of
your cards stretched out horizontally
in at one particular screen dimension, and
you want those things stacked vertically
at a different screen dimension you may
wind up using the column property for that